Newsgroups: soc.culture.usa,soc.culture.europe,soc.culture.nordic,soc.culture.german,sci.electronics
From: finns@hal.nta.no (Finn Stafsnes FBA)
Subject: Re: How universal are phones these days?
Date: Wed, 28 Apr 93 14:30:34 GMT

I believe it is correct that all telecom operators use the same frequencies.
However, there are (at least) two options for the levels. I believe that there
is 6 dB level difference between the options. To complicate the situation some
operators require that the level shall be regulated depending upon the
subscriber line attenuation. (This is done by estimating the DC current in the
line.)

For loop pulse dialling there are (at least) three different possibilities:

Number dialled:   1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0   (n)
Sys. 1, # pulses: 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10   (p=n, n=1,2,,9  p=10, n=0)
Sys. 2, # pulses: 2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10  1   (p=n+1)
Sys. 3, # pulses: 9  8  7  6  5  4  3  2  1 10   (p=10-n)

Sys. 1 is used in most countries (including most of Norway).
Sys. 2 is used in Sweden.
Sys. 3 is used in a few countries (including the capital of Norway).
Except from what is written here I am not sure if my knowledge of which
countries are using Sys.2 and Sys.3 is based upon rumours or facts. If
anybody know where they are used, please let me know.

But even if you are able to send a number from your "foreign" phone or modem or
whatever-it-is, you have no guarantee that all is well. Different operators use
different transmission levels which means that the gains for transmission and
receiving amplifiers should be adjusted accordingly. Different operators use
different matching impedances for the 2-4 and 4-2 wire conversion circuits
(one such conversion is done in the phone).
For items like these there are a lot more than 2 or 3 different options
around the world (or even in Europe).

So even if you think that your "foreign" phone is working fine you may create
problems for the one you are talking to by sending a wrong level to the line
or (due to impedance mismatch) return a strong echo back to the one who is
talking to you.

Of course, in many cases foreign telephone equipment will work without any
problems.
But if you connect your equipment to some extreme subscriber line (short or
long line) in a country which is extreme (in some technical telphony meaning
of the word) you can be pretty sure that you will run into problems if you
do not happen to have a suitably extreme piece of telepony terminal.


Finn Stafsnes
